# Maintenance Staffing

## A Strategy and Grievance Guide

**Maintenance Division**  
American Postal Workers Union, AFL-CIO

**Doug Mirowski**  
National Business Agent  
Eastern Region

---

## Introduction

This guide was developed to aid Local Union Officers in your efforts to bring Maintenance Staffing to levels which will ensure a safe, clean, and healthy work environment.

It is one of our most basic responsibilities as Union Officials to fight to gain or preserve jobs. We should strive at all times to, at a minimum, be aware of the number of authorized positions for our installation and to make sure that complement is maintained. We must also be vigilant to ensure the work required by approved staffing surveys is performed.

The guide begins with a list of Handbooks, Manuals, and Documents that any Union Official who represents maintenance employees should compile, as applicable to your size facility, in order to properly police staffing. The basic and most important documents are MMO-28-97 (including the BMC Interim Staffing Guidelines for BMC’s), the MS-47, and Administrative Support Manual-Chapter 531.7.

Our basic format is a short narrative explanation of each section, followed by an outline of how to approach the grievance and a sample grievance itself. The sample grievances are ready-made outlines that become grievances simply by filling in the blanks. Be sure to cite the listed  [[2.02 Collective Bargaining Agreement#ARTICLE 19 HANDBOOKS AND MANUALS]] references on your Step 2 Appeal. Of course, you still must provide the necessary facts and documents and lay the proper groundwork to be successful.

---

## I. Source Documents

1. National Agreement
2. [[2.03.01.01 Administrative Support Manual]]  
   - Chapter 531.13 Record Keeping  
   - Chapter 531.7 Staffing Requirements and Authorizations
3. [[MMO-125-20]]
   - Maintenance Workhour Estimating Guide for All Mechanized Offices
4. Interim BMC Staffing Guidelines
5. Maintenance Series Handbooks
   - MS-1 Operations and Maintenance of Real Property
   - MS-7 Repair and Alteration of Real Property
   - MS-10 Floors, Care and Maintenance
   - MS-24 Heating, Cooling and Ventilation
   - MS-39 Fluorescent and Mercury Vapor Lighting, Cleaning and Relamping
   - MS-45 Field Maintenance Program
   - MS-47 Housekeeping, Postal Facilities
   - MS-58 Maintenance Performance Criteria
   - MS-63 Maintenance Management Class A Offices
   - MS-65 Maintenance Management Class B Offices

---

## II. Background

In the Maintenance Craft, staffing is generated through a survey performed pursuant to the current applicable Maintenance Management Order (MMO) and Maintenance Series (MS) Handbook.

The current MMO, which dictates the methodology for the survey in mechanization offices and which controls the actual staffing, is [[MMO-125-20]] titled: Maintenance Workhour Estimating Guide for All Mechanized Offices. This MMO superseded MMO 21-91 and its supplement MMO 29-91 which was titled Maintenance Staffing Guidelines for All Mechanized Offices. The predecessor MMOs (MMO 30-87 and MMO 19-77) had the same title as MMO 21-91.

Custodial staffing remains dictated by the MS-47 Handbook (Housekeeping, Postal Facilities). Non-mechanized offices (without mail processing equipment) may also have separate MS-1 (Operation and Maintenance of Real Property) surveys for Building and Building Equipment Maintenance.

Bulk Mail Centers (BMCs) continue to use Interim Bulk Mail Center Staffing Guidelines and Criteria as well as the MS-1 and MS-47. [[MMO-125-20]] is the correct reference for all Mechanized Offices

---

## III. Authorized Complement

Applicable Maintenance Staffing Surveys are compulsory for all USPS facilities and buildings, as per MMO 28-97 and MS-47. It is important that the staffing process be completed, including the requisite approval from the Area. It is this approval that changes any survey from proposed or recommended complement to authorized complement.

Local Management, generally, cannot increase or fill positions unless the positions are authorized through Area approval. Likewise, our ability to enforce staffing surveys in the grievance procedure is generally limited to authorized complement.

---

## IV. Approval Process

Contractually, the process, as per the Approval Section of [[MMO-125-20]], is simple. Local Management performs a survey. The Senior Maintenance Official reviews and signs the package. It is forwarded to the Plant Manager or Postmaster and the Manager of Maintenance Support at the Area Office. With those signatures, the survey becomes the authorized complement and the positions can be filled. In reality, the process is far more circuitous.

A typical look at the process as it exists today would have the Local Office performing the survey requiring 10 additional positions and sending it to the Area for review. The Area would make suggested cuts, perhaps reducing the increase to 5 positions, and send it back to Local Management. Local Management might then fight to increase the frequencies in certain areas and attempt to regain 2 of the positions, for a total of 7, and sell that to the Area. After some give and take discussions, the Area would agree to support a package calling for 6 additional positions. That package is then taken by Local Management to the District Complement Committee. It is this Complement Committee that controls the budget and the adding of positions. If the Complement Committee approves the sixth position, then the staffing will go back to the Area, and having already been preapproved, receive a perfunctory approval and be sent back to the District to increase the OMSS, which will allow Local Management to fill the position. If Local Management cannot persuade the District Complement Committee to increase to the requested level, the Area will not approve it. If, in this hypothetical case, the Complement Committee will only approve 4 positions, then the staffing package will be reduced to reflect that and then sent again to the Area for approval, where it will be rubber-stamped and sent back.

---

## V. Before Filing Grievances

Local Management, especially Maintenance Management, will often be interested in increasing its staffing. This will require documentation and a willingness to fight for the needed positions. When Local Management is making a serious attempt to increase or preserve staffing in the face of proposed cuts, we should work with them. We want to support their efforts while at the same time keep pressuring them to complete the process and do follow-up whenever the ball is in their court.

It is advisable to leave a paper trail to reflect our attempts both to work with Local Management on staffing and to keep the process moving. Setting agreed upon deadlines in writing for completion of any component of the staffing process that is in the responsibility of Local Management is a good idea.

The first goal is getting an approved staffing package or authorized complement. Although the problem could be at the Area or District, usually any long hold-up in the staffing process is the result of a Local Management’s delay or failure. We should enter the grievance process only when there is no movement toward getting an authorized complement or a long delay in filling the position once the staffing package is approved.

Agreements or Grievance Settlements requiring completion of any stage of the process by a certain date, and the entire process as expeditiously as possible, are very valuable to both completing the process and any subsequent grievance concerning failure to properly staff.

Agreements to perform joint Management/Union Staffing Surveys and to staff accordingly have also been very effective. Those surveys generally involve APWU Headquarters Staffing Advocates and USPS Area experts.

Again, our first goal must be to get an approved complement that we can enforce. If we cannot achieve that, we want to be able to demonstrate our efforts to obtain such, including grievances asking for a completed and approved survey.

If we get an approved survey and either do not agree with it or wish to have it double-checked, we should send it to APWU Headquarter Officers, noting particular discrepancies (i.e. equipment or operational tours and work space not included).

---

## VI. Overall Staffing Grievances

When filing Staffing Grievances with the hope and expectation for an hour-for-hour or large monetary remedy, we want to be able to portray ourselves as being in the grievance procedure asking for this remedy because we had no choice.

We want to be able to say that we were extremely patient and that we exhausted all other possibilities to gain proper staffing and a safe, healthy, clean work environment.

It is important to note the length of time Management had to properly staff. We want to document the long foreknowledge that the Service had for additional staffing and their long failure to act. If, for example, the understaffing involves a new or enlarged facility, we want to show the earliest time that Management knew that construction would take place (i.e. Postal Service newsletter or announcement).

We should note when the ground breaking took place and when the facility or addition opened. We should ask for all correspondence related to Maintenance Staffing, particularly approvals. Signed packages are becoming something of a rarity. However, more and more individual approval letters from the Area have been appearing. Often the letters will be for sections of Maintenance i.e. Labor Distribution Code (LDC) 38 Custodial, 36 Mail Processing Equipment, 37 Building Equipment.

The USPS has a long and tortuous staffing process. MMO 28-97, as stated on page 9, is somewhat ambiguous:

The completed workhour estimating package should be forwarded through appropriate channels to get signatures and then sent to the Area Office for review and approval. Local Management is responsible for ensuring the package is forwarded correctly and promptly. It is crucial to keep records of all correspondence, dates, and approvals to avoid any delays or miscommunications.

Much of the actual processes are, however, internal administrative machinations that do not appear directly in MMO 28-97

97, [[2.03.02.02 MS-47]], or any other [[2.02 Collective Bargaining Agreement#ARTICLE 19 HANDBOOKS AND MANUALS]] document. As such, they are noncontractual. We would argue that these cannot be a basis for long delays in completing the hiring process or filling positions.

Our position is that Staffing Surveys should be completed, at least in a preliminary fashion, so that employees are in place and trained when the equipment arrives and/or the building opens. This also appears to be the position of Area Maintenance Management.

See:  
- United States Postal Service, Headquarters Directive, Peter A. Jacobson, June 27, 1986 Subject: Authorized Complement of Electronic Technicians (Appendix #4)
- United States Postal Service, Eastern Region Directive, by William Levine, Human Resource Management Branch, March 6, 1984, Subject: Training Courses - FY 1985 (Appendix #5)

Adjustments or fine-tuning (i.e. authorizing additional positions) should then be made within a reasonable time period based on experience and need.

---

## VI. Overall Staffing Grievances continued

It is our position, supported by arbitral thought, that the approval of the survey would authorize any position and create a vacancy. This vacancy must then be posted within 30 days pursuant to Article 38.4.A.2 and filled in service within 29 more days pursuant to Article 38.4.A.1, 38.5.C.3 and 4.

Arbitrators have also supported our position that 90 days is a reasonable time to fill a vacancy through the hiring process given the Service’s responsibility to maintain sufficient registers to meet all its needs in EL 311 (Personnel Operations), Section 211.

---

## Overall Staffing Grievances

### Categories

Overall Staffing Grievances can be divided into 5 categories.

1. Understaffing (i.e. not having the number of employees on board required by an approved survey)
2. Failure to complete the staffing package in a proper manner or timely fashion
3. Failure to post or fill a newly vacant position
4. Failure to provide any coverage on an operating tour
5. Bypassing required preventive maintenance

---

## Understaffing Guide Reference A

### Maintenance Understaffing Grievance

**Use:**  
When the Postal Service has an approved staffing package and authorized complement and is below that complement.

**Purpose:**  
To require USPS to staff consistent with its survey and to achieve a monetary remedy for failure to properly staff.

**Documentation Needed:**  
- Approved staffing package pursuant to MMO 28-97 (or predecessor MMO 21-91).
- Number of Employees below authorized complement. (Keep track at all times until the staffing reaches this complement.)
- All overtime used by all bypassed work (MARS reports).

**On Point Arbitration Awards:**  
- Blackwell, Case #C90T-1C-C95006449, AIRS #26601
- Benn, Case #I90T-1I-C93036556, AIRS #24351

**File Under:**  
- [[2.02 Collective Bargaining Agreement#ARTICLE 19 HANDBOOKS AND MANUALS]]
  - Administrative Support Manual, Chapter 531.7
  - Personnel Operations [[EL-312]] Section 211
  - Maintenance Management Order 28-97 (Workhour Estimating Guide for all mechanized offices)
  - [[2.03.02.01 MS-63]], Maintenance Management Class A Offices
- Article 38.4

All facilities should reference eWHEP

**Request And Provide:**  
- Management staffing survey made pursuant to MMO 28-97; Data relating to bypass of work from NMICS, MARS or any available sources

---

## Understaffing Guide Reference A

**Request And Provide continued:**  
- All correspondence related to Maintenance Staffing to District or Area
- All Approval/Authorization Letters related to Maintenance Staffing
- Current staffing (i.e. list of maintenance employees on rolls by occupational group)
- Cross reference with any related subcontracting grievance and include any relating Labor/Management meeting minutes or correspondence including Electronic Mail

---

## Understaffing Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The Postal Service has failed to staff the installation with the proper number of employees as required by the current authorized staffing package. The staffing package performed pursuant to MMO 28-97 and ASM 531.7 requires ____ Maintenance employees. The Service has been below authorized complement since __________ and has not completed required maintenance work.

Inconsistencies with the staffing required by the MMO 28-97 staffing package and bypassed required maintenance include:

---

## Understaffing Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Bring staffing to levels consistent with authorized staffing.
- Compensate the APWU bargaining unit employees designated by the Union, at the appropriate rate, for all unworked and bypassed hours as set forth in the current authorized staffing package.

---

## Proper Completion Guide Reference A

### Failure to Properly Complete Staffing Package

**Use:**  
When the Service is not making any progress to complete its package or bring it up to date to reflect current equipment or need.

**Purpose:**  
To force the Postal Service to have a properly completed staffing package within a reasonable period of time.

**Strategy:**  
- Settle the grievance, if possible, for an agreement to complete any aspects of the staffing process locally within a specific period of time (i.e. 90 days) and to have an approved or authorized package as expeditiously as possible or within a reasonable time period.
- Involve APWU Headquarters Maintenance Officers or Staffing Advocates when there is long term intransigence on the part of the USPS (i.e. years of delays, glaring oversights that Management refuses to correct).
- Request latest staffing package on disk and send it to our people (APWU Headquarters, Maintenance) for review.

**See:**  
- Management Instruction, April 12, 1990, [[2 Union Steward Topics/2.03 Employee Labor Relations and Handbooks/2.03.02 USPS Maintenance Guidance/2.03.02.03 MI AS-530-90-5]] Preventive Maintenance For Mail Processing Equipment (Appendix #6)

---

## Proper Completion Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The Postal Service has failed to properly complete the required staffing process consistent with [[MMO-125-20]] and ASM 531.7. The installation has been operating without a properly authorized complement since ______________. Equipment and other Maintenance work, for which the proper authorized complement has not been approved, includes:

---

## Proper Completion Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Complete the staffing process as expeditiously as possible. Fill all positions in that authorized complement.
- Compensate the APWU bargaining unit employees designated by the Union, at the appropriate rate for all hours, beyond a reasonable period of time, which the installation is understaffed due to Management’s failure to complete the staffing process in a timely manner.

---

## Newly Vacant Position Guide Reference A

### Failure to Fill a Newly Vacant Position

**Use:**  
When the Postal Service fails to post and fill positions authorized by its staffing survey. This can be used either for positions that would be newly created by a recently approved survey or existing positions.

**Purpose:**  
To get all authorized positions posted within 30 days of approval and filled within another 29 days.

To get out of schedule premium higher level pay and retroactive promotions as a remedy for all employees who are not in the position to which contractually entitled if properly posted and filled.

**File Under:**  
- [[MMO-125-20]]
- [[2.02 Collective Bargaining Agreement#Article38]] Sections 4 and 5
- [[ARTICLE 8]].4
- ELM 434.6
- EL 401 Section D

**On Point Arbitration Award:**  
- Blackwell, Case #C90T-1C-C95007424, AIRS #26341

---

## Newly Vacant Position Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The Postal Service has failed to post and fill newly created or existing vacancies consistent with Article 38 Sections 4 and 5. Positions authorized by an approved staffing survey are newly created positions and must be posted and filled pursuant to [[ARTICLE 38]].

The following positions were not posted and filled pursuant to the above.

---

## Newly Vacant Positions Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Post and fill all newly created and existing positions from PARS, PERS, transfer requests and inservice registers that were in place at the time the position(s) should have been posted.
- Pay out of schedule premium or overtime to all employees who were delayed in being placed into these positions and all employees who moved to different days and hours related to the posting of these positions (i.e. all residual movement).
- Make all employees whole, including appropriate higher level pay and retroactive promotions.

---

## Maintenance Coverage on Equipment Guide Reference A

### Failure to Provide Maintenance Coverage on Equipment During Operating Tours

**Use:**  
When Postal Service unnecessarily resorts to risk Management to save money.

**Purpose:**  
Ensure that an appropriate mechanic or technician is present when mail processing equipment is operating even if overtime is required.

**File Under:**  
- [[ARTICLE 15]]
- [[2.02 Collective Bargaining Agreement#ARTICLE 19 HANDBOOKS AND MANUALS]]
- USPS Headquarters Directive, Maintenance Coverage, November 29, 1983 (Appendix #9)

---

## Maintenance Coverage on Equipment Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

As per the Step 4 settlement to case number H8T-4K-C 35791, the Postal Service issued the November 29, 1983 directive titled “Maintenance Coverage”. That settlement and directive requires the Postal Service to staff properly and make every effort in short-term situations, including the use of overtime, to provide proper maintenance coverage for operating equipment.

On ______________, the Postal Service operated the equipment without proper maintenance coverage and without compliance with the Management directive and Step 4 settlement. The Employer did so in an attempt to avoid overtime. These actions were in violation of the directive and the Step 4 settlement.

---

## Maintenance Coverage on Equipment Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Pay to the applicable employees who should have been brought in to provide coverage at the appropriate pay at the overtime rate, including out of schedule overtime or premium, for all hours the Postal Service operated the equipment without proper coverage.

---

## Bypassing Guide Reference A

### Bypassing Required Preventive Maintenance

**Use:**  
When the Service is not keeping the Equipment in a safe and proper operating condition.

**Purpose:**  
To help maximize staffing, safety, and mail movement.

**Requirements:**  
The Postal Service is required by ASM 531.313 to keep records concerning preventive Maintenance (see Appendix #2).

**See:**  
- [[MMO-125-20]]
- Management Instruction, April 12, 1990, [[2.03.02.03 MI AS-530-90-5]] Preventive Maintenance for Mail Processing Equipment
- [[2.03.01.01 Administrative Support Manual]] [[531]] [[Section 313]]

**Document:**  
- Bypassed PM routes from eMARS

---

## Bypassing Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The Service is bypassing preventive Maintenance required by [[MMO-125-20]] and Management Instruction AS-530-90-5. This work is required to keep the equipment in a safe and proper operating order. Failure to perform preventive maintenance results in hazards and mail delay and undermines the mission of the organization pursuant to the Postal Reorganization Act and other applicable laws, regulations, directives, and manuals.

---

## Bypassing Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Cease and desist all unnecessary bypassing of preventive maintenance.
- Make all necessary staffing adjustments so that PMs, required by the staffing survey, are performed.
- Pay, to the employee named by the Union, all bypassed preventive maintenance hours.

---

## VII. Custodial Staffing

All of the general information contained in Sections II - VI would apply to Custodial Staffing. Custodial Staffing is determined by a survey performed pursuant to the MS-47. It is then incorporated in the [[MMO-125-20]] in mechanized offices or stands alone as authorizing the complement in non-mechanized offices. Offices with Building Maintenance Custodians may also have an MS-1 survey for noncustodial or Level 4 work.

Custodial Staffing is summarized on Form 4852, the Custodial Workload Analysis and Summary. It is our position that the Service must fill all positions indicated by the survey and perform all of the work listed on the survey.

Our position is buttressed by the Headquarter’s Gamser Award Case # A8-NA-0375, which found the MS-47 as binding upon the USPS as well as many Step 4 settlements and regional awards.

---

### Overview MS-47

The United States Postal Service will attempt to reduce cost in a facility or installation by cutting custodial staffing, reducing custodial work hours, or not recording all custodial work being performed.

The MS-47 Handbook is the criterion developed by USPS Management in order to determine and staff USPS facilities. Once the employer has determined the staffing, they must maintain the staffing. This can be accomplished by manning to the staffing level or working a reduced number of employees overtime.

The role of the Union is to insist on a survey and to review the USPS Staffing documents for accuracy. The Union must ensure the staffing documents include all work being performed by the custodian. In addition, the building must be “clean.”

The Union should file a grievance if the employer is not working career employees the number of work hours noted on the PS 4852 Custodial Workload Analysis. The Union should be reviewing details to non-custodial assignments, long term absences, removals, administrative leave, military leave, court leave, OWCP absences, etc. These absences will normally reduce custodial work hours below the hours noted on Form 4852.

The Union needs all the Custodial Staffing documents. The 4869 tells us what is in the building. The 4839 tells us when the work should be done and how often. The 4852 compiles data from 4869 and 4839 in order to determine the total work hours required to keep the building clean. Then, based on the 4869, 4839, and 4852, route sheets 4776 are developed. The 4776s tell us what to clean, when to clean, and how long it is expected to take to clean. Then the USPS is expected to perform quarterly housekeeping inspection and compile data on Form 4851.

The Service has coverage options in single custodial offices that include using other occupational groups and crafts (see [[MMO-125-20]] Section 5 #5b page 99 Appendix #7). Therefore, in a small office we may want to file grievances as all craft and have the remedy include appropriate APWU career employees. Generally, we seek to pay PTF clerks if there are no maintenance employees available to be paid (see Franklin, Case #B90T-4B-C92018695, AIRS #24795).

---

### Custodial Coverage for Leave and Short Term Absences

We have made much progress in forcing the Postal Service to provide the coverage required by its staffing surveys. Our victories in arbitration, however, have been in cases where the Service did not have on board the number of employees required by an approved staffing survey or did not cover a long term absence. We have yet to be successful in hour for hour coverage for short term absences.

Hour for hour coverage is probably not achievable in arbitration because a maintenance employee is based on 1760 hours per year (see Section 243.u of MS-47 [Appendix #8] and MMO 7-87 [Appendix #3], as well as page 99 of [[MMO-125-20]] [Appendix #7]). This allows 320 hours for leave and holidays. Absences for leave and holidays are theoretically already built into the staffing and would not require additional staffing. We do, however, believe that Area Cleaning Routes (generally daily cleaning and policing), as opposed to project or component cleaning work, must be performed on each operating tour consistent with Chapter 4 of the MS-47. Section 340 of the MS-47 requires that these routes be given priority over other work (Appendix #8).

While we do not believe we can require that the Postal Service is to provide hour for hour coverage, Management should, however, assure that required Area Cleaning (i.e. daily cleaning or policing of restrooms, locker room, swing rooms, workroom floor, lobby, etc.) is performed (see Area Cleaning Routes Section 420 of MS-47).

If you have a staffing survey including the required forms 4852, 4839, 4869, and 4776, you could calculate exactly how many hours this would be each day. Although it would vary from office to office, depending on the size of the office, size of workforce, frequencies chosen, etc., a good rule of thumb would be 4 hours per 8-hour tour. Section 5 of [[MMO-125-20]] gives the Postal Service options but directs the Service to cover absences in single person Maintenance offices, including PTFs.

In order to achieve the needed coverage, I would approach Management and suggest that such coverage is needed; especially concerning scheduled absences. I believe that District and Area Maintenance Management would agree that such coverage should normally be provided.

---

## Custodial Staffing Grievances

### Categories

Custodial Staffing Grievances can be divided into 6 categories.

1. Custodial Understaffing (i.e. not having on board the number of employees required by the MS-47 staffing survey)
2. Failure to complete the staffing package in a proper manner or timely fashion
3. Not covering long term custodial absences
4. Failure to develop or assign custodial route sheets (Form 4776)
5. Bypassing Area Cleaning
6. Bypassing component cleaning

---

## Custodial Understaffing Guide Reference A

### Custodial Understaffing Grievances

**Use:**  
When the Postal Service is below its authorized complement and not performing all the work on its MS-47 staffing survey as summarized on Form 4852.

**Purpose:**  
To ensure a clean, healthy, and safe work environment.  
To require the USPS to staff consistent with its survey.  
To receive a monetary remedy for all hours understaffed and not worked on overtime.

**Documentation Needed:**  
- The entire custodial staffing package including Forms 4852, 4869, and 4839.
- All housekeeping inspection reports, Forms 4851.
- All bypassed custodial routes or work (these should be input into NMICS/MARS).

Stress the health and safety aspects in the narrative. Options including seeking help from other crafts including 1767's for unhealthy conditions and Article 14 grievances.

**On Point Arbitration Awards:**  
- Franklin, Case #B90T-4B-C92018695, AIRS #24795
- Blackwell, Case #C87T-1C-C90006204, AIRS #25963
- Benn, Case #J90T-4J-C94041806, AIRS #25975
- Zobrak, Case #D90T-1D-C94020357, AIRS #23747
- Belshaw, Case #C0T-4G-C0014749, AIRS #22892

**File Under:**  
- [[2.02 Collective Bargaining Agreement#ARTICLE 19 HANDBOOKS AND MANUALS]]: [[2.03.02.02 MS-47]]
- Article 14

---

## Custodial Understaffing Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The MS-47 Handbook, Housekeeping-Postal Facilities, as interpreted by the national award of Arbitrator Gamser and the National interpretive settlements between the parties, requires the Postal Service to perform all the cleaning indicated on its staffing and scheduling survey, to hire to the complement indicated by its survey (Section 243.u) and to maintain that staffing once a survey is done (Section 116).

As such, the

 Postal Service has failed to properly staff and clean the installation properly, as indicated by Forms 4852, 4839, 4869, 4851 and the bypassed custodial work, as well as a general lack of cleanliness of the building(s).

---

## Custodial Staffing Grievances Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Staff the Custodial Workforce to the proper levels established by the MS-47 Forms 4869, 4839, 4852 and 4776. Compensate career APWU bargaining unit employees, as designated by the Local Union, for hours not worked based on the MS-47 staffing hours at the appropriate rate of pay.

---

## Proper Completion Guide Reference A

### Failure to Properly Complete Staffing Package

**Use:**  
When the Service is not making any progress to complete its custodial staffing package or bring it up to date to reflect current equipment or need.

**Purpose:**  
To force the Postal Service to have a properly completed staffing package within a reasonable period of time.

**Strategy:**  
- Settle the grievance if possible for an agreement to complete any aspects of the staffing process locally within a specific period of time (i.e. 90 days) and to have an approved or authorized package as expeditiously as possible or within a reasonable time period.
- Involve APWU Headquarters Maintenance Officers or Staffing Advocates when there is long term intransigence on the part of the USPS (i.e. years of delays, glaring oversights that Management refuses to correct).
- Request latest staffing package on disk and send it to our people (APWU Headquarters, Maintenance) for review.

---

## Proper Completion Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The Postal Service has failed to properly complete the required staffing process consistent with the MS-47. The installation has been operating without a properly authorized complement since ______________.

Areas and buildings, for which a proper authorized complement has not been approved, include:  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  

Areas not being properly cleaned include:  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  

---

## Proper Completion Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Complete the staffing process as expeditiously as possible.
- Compensate the APWU bargaining unit employees designated by the Union, at the appropriate rate for all hours, beyond a reasonable period of time, which the installation is understaffed due to Management’s failure to complete the staffing process in a timely manner.

---

## Long Term Absences Guide Reference A

### Long Term Custodial Absences

**Use:**  
When custodial employees are on long-term absences from custodial work in the installation and all custodial work on MS-47 survey is not being performed.

Long-term absences would include: 204B details, higher level details, or any other details that take employees away from custodial work such as long-term sick leave, OWCP, removal pending adjudication.

**Documentation Needed:**  
- Length of absences
- Bypassed custodial work (i.e. MARS report)

---

## Long Term Custodial Absences Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The MS-47 Handbook, Housekeeping-Postal Facilities, as interpreted by the national award of Arbitrator Gamser and the National interpretive settlements between the parties, requires the Postal Service to perform all the cleaning indicated on its staffing and scheduling survey.

The Postal Service has failed to provide proper coverage and as such, the Postal Service has failed to properly staff and clean the installation properly, as indicated by Forms 4852, 4839, 4869, 4851 and the bypassed custodial work, as well as a general lack of cleanliness of the building(s) or replacement of absent employees.

Form 4852 requires _________________ hours of custodial cleaning during each week. During the week of ____________________, only _________________ were performed. Long-term absences include:  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  

---

## Long Term Custodial Absences Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Compensate career APWU bargaining unit employees, determined by the Union, at the overtime rate for all hours in which the hours listed on the MS-47 survey which were not performed.

**On Point Arbitration Awards:**  
- Amis, Case #C90T-4C-C94099760, AIRS #26546
- Byars, Case #H94T-1H-C96055756, AIRS #27529

---

## Custodial Route Sheets Guide Reference A

### Failure to Develop or Assign Custodial Routes

**Use:**  
When the Service does not develop or assign custodial routes (4776) consistent with Chapter 3 of the MS-47 and Headquarters letter of October 31, 1997 (Appendix #1).

**Purpose:**  
The employers in many locations do not assign custodians routes. The employer does not want routes because the routes reflect work a custodian should perform.

The Union should seek routes because routes ensure custodial work is being done. This will also help ensure the building is clean.

**Documentation Needed:**  
- Copies of PS Form 4776 Routes
- Copies of document custodian uses for cleaning assignment
- Copies of MARS Cards
- Copies of 4851 Housekeeping Inspection

---

## Custodial Route Sheets Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

Consistent with Chapter 3 of the MS-47 and the USPS Headquarters letter of October 31, 1997 (Samuel J. Pulcrano, Manager of Contract Administration) custodial route sheets (Form 4776) must be developed.

Failure to comply with the above has resulted in areas not being properly cleaned which creates an unhealthy and unsafe work environment for employees and customers.

Areas not being properly cleaned include:  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  

---

## Custodial Route Sheets Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- The Postal Service will establish and utilize custodial route sheets in accordance with the MS-47.
- There will be a joint housekeeping inspection performed by the parties consistent with Chapter 5 of the MS-47. Any areas identified as unsatisfactory or requiring attention will be cleaned within 30 days utilizing bargaining unit maintenance employees.

---

## Bypassing Area Cleaning Guide Reference A

### Bypassing Area Cleaning

**Use:**  
When the Postal Service is not making efforts to provide basic daily policing and cleaning.

**Purpose:**  
To assure that area cleaning routes are performed (i.e. daily cleaning and policing of restrooms, lunchrooms, swing rooms, locker rooms, workroom floor, etc.).

**File Under:**  
- MS-47 including, but not limited to Section 340 (Appendix #8) and Chapter 4.

**Documentation Needed:**  
- Area Cleaning Route Form 4776 indicating routes and hours required on day(s) in question
- Number of routes actually covered

---

## Bypassing Area Cleaning Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The Postal Service is failing to make every effort to provide the minimum daily area cleaning as required by the MS-47 and its staffing survey.

The Postal Service, in performing its survey, consistent with the frequencies in Chapter 4 of the MS-47, has established the standard necessary for maintaining a clean, safe, and healthy work environment for employees and customers.

On _______________, the Postal Service did not schedule sufficient employees to meet the minimum standards for Area Cleaning. _______________ hours of Area Cleaning were required. Only _______________ hours were performed. Bypassed Area Cleaning routes included:  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  

---

## Bypassing Area Cleaning Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Pay to available bargaining unit employee, named by the Union, at the applicable rate, for all bypassed Area Cleaning hours.

---

## Bypassing Component Cleaning Guide Reference A

### Bypassing Component Cleaning

**Use:**  
When the Postal Service is not assuring that all component cleaning (i.e. window cleaning, walls, floor care, lawn care, case dusting, etc.)

**Purpose:**  
Ensure a clean, safe work environment (free from dust build up, mold, etc.)

**Documentation Needed:**  
- Component Cleaning Routes Form 4776
- Bypassed work (i.e. MARS report)

---

## Bypassing Component Cleaning Sample Grievance Reference B

### Sample Grievance

The Service is failing to ensure that the component cleaning or project work required by the MS-47 and its staffing survey is performed.

The Postal Service, in performing its survey, consistent with the frequencies in Chapter 4 of the MS-47, has established the standard necessary for maintaining a clean, safe, and healthy work environment for employees and customers.

The following component cleaning routes have been bypassed:  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________  

---

## Bypassing Component Cleaning Remedy Reference C

### Remedy

- Pay to available bargaining unit employee, named by the Union, at the applicable rate, for all bypassed Component Cleaning hours.

---

## Appendix

1. U.S.P.S. Headquarters Letter, October 31, 1997, Samuel Pulcrano, Manager Contract Administration. Subject: PS Form 4776, Preventive Custodial Maintenance Routes.
2. ASM 531.313 Record Keeping
3. MMO 7-87, Custodial Work/Year, 1760 Hours
4. United States Postal Service, Headquarters Directive, Peter A. Jacobson, June 27, 1986 Subject: Authorized Complement of Electronic Technicians
5. United States Postal Service, Eastern Region Directive, by William Levine, Human Resource Management Branch, March

 6, 1984 Subject: Training Courses - FY 1985
6. Management Instruction, April 12, 1990, AS-530-90-5 Preventive Maintenance For Mail Processing Equipment
7. [[MMO-125-20]] page 10, Staffing Approval Section 5 Custodial Staffing
8. MS-47 Sections 116 and 340
9. United States Postal Service Headquarter Directive, Maintenance Coverage, November 29, 1983
10. ASM 531.7 Staffing Requirements and Authorizations